in this lesson i want to talk about zero
trust a huge critical principle when we
think about our security of any service
we have today
we already talked about the idea of
defense in depth this takes it to
another layer and we think about just
because something's on a certain network
we don't trust it
xero trust focuses on three key
principles and i have a whole one hour
deep dive on this because this is a
fascinating really cool area
the first one
is verify
explicitly
and what does that mean so very far
explicitly is
for every single aspect of an
interaction we're going to
re-evaluate revalidate you are who you
say you are
revalidate you're still in a healthy
scenario this could be a user it could
be a service principle it could be a
device everything
we're constantly going to verify the
access within any policy constraints we
have we're going to look at any
anomalies that we might detect in that
interaction
to understand maybe there's some
potential risk element in this
particular communication
we think about
least
privilege
just enough permission i only have the
permissions i need to do a particular
job so we make sure we have separate
credentials separate service principles
for any different lines of work being
done
we think about
just in time i don't have standing
privileges if i'm a user
i use technologies like produced
identity management to elevate up to a
particular role only when i need it
we're going to use policy to look at the
context of every request to implement
the correct controls
and on that vein of we don't trust just
because we're coming from a certain
network
we assume
breach
we assume there are bad actors on the
network
we assume that process trying to talk to
us has been corrupted in some way so
we're constantly going to look at all of
the signals available to us
telemetries automations
risk analysis to defend
we're going to get signals from every
single digital
asset we have
and use as part of some all up better
set of controls to grant access
the intranet our internal network we're
going to treat just like the internet
now when i think about this
there are various different components
that come into play then
obviously we have the identity
and again when we think about identity
that's a user that's a service principle
that's a managed identity
if it's a user i want to think about
good authentication
mfa passwordless single sign-on we think
about that role-based access control we
think about that just in time with azure
ad produce identity management
so i want to really make sure i'm as
confident as possible for the user
assess the risk using things like
identity protection
i can think about what's the end point
involved in that so then we have an end
point
that endpoint might be a user's laptop
it could be an iot device it could be a
server it could be a phone it could be
some piece of equipment
once again we think about knowledge of
the device and confidence in the device
does it have a tpm
can i leverage that can i use device
certificates to mutually authenticate
yes
a client normally authenticates to the
service it's talking to using
certificates but the service should
authenticate the device i want to do
that mutual authentication is the device
registered is it managed is it healthy i
can use things like defender for
endpoint to help me assess that is it
jail broken is it patched so i think
about all these different components
and yes we still think about things like
well the network where is it coming from
is it the internet is it a private
intranet
i want to think about layers of security
on the network i want to think about
micro segmentation i want to think about
encrypting all of the communications
even within an intranet i'm still going
to encrypt everything could be tls could
be ipsec
once again we're going to collect the
signals collect the information because
what i want to then be able to do
is i want to think about the context
i'm going to take
redo that
context
we're going to look at the context of
the request so the context comes from
all of these different things
and from the context i can help
understand the overall risk
of this particular request because then
i want to control
what i'm actually going to let you have
access to so we look at the context
to control
what we're going to let you do and in
terms of solutions we really think about
conditional access
this is obviously a feature of azure ad
premium
but that is what is going to control so
we have all these signals coming in
we're going to gather that context to
give us control
to the bits that we then want to talk to
remember conditional access can look at
the health of a device it can do many
many different things to help give me
that level of assurance
now there's infrastructure that things
run on
is it generation 2 vm it comes as part
of those endpoints but then i want to
actually go and talk to something and
what i basically want to talk to
is my data
and my application which may give me
access to that so through the controls
then i get the access
so i have to understand this so data is
what really matters my app is maybe the
gateway to it
i only have permission to data i have to
have access to do you know where your
data is is it classified so then based
on the classification i can do more
controls
is my data encrypted
for some data maybe it's data masking so
hide certain parts of the data from the
user like social security numbers we
typically mask a lot of it and maybe
just expose the last four digits
focus on the behaviors of the
interaction with the data hey someone
suddenly downloading a whole bunch of
data that's out of the ordinary maybe we
should stop that access for a period of
time so we can be sure it's valid
so we think about in this idea
of zero trust
i'm gathering signals from everything
the identity the device
the network i get a context of what it's
doing i think about the resiliency of
that infrastructure so there's a whole
part of infra here we're still making
sure it's patched its resilient all of
those elements
then we take this information use
conditional access to then grant
a controlled set of access
i make sure i understand my data where
my data is i'm getting just enough
but we really focus on signals from
everywhere
i might bring those into azure sentinel
as my sim and source solution to be able
to understand what all these signals
mean
but then also automatically respond to
it
so key tenants
verify explicitly
least privilege
and assume breach